Improve README.md for NuGet.Protocol package (#5086)
NuGet/NuGet.Client: src/NuGet.Core/NuGet.Protocol/README.md

## Getting started

NuGet.Protocol can be installed from the NuGet Package Manager or using the dotnet CLI:

```
dotnet add package NuGet.Protocol
```

## Usage

At the center of this library are the PackageSource and SourceRepository types, which represent a NuGet source that may be a file source or an http based source implementing the V2 or [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview#versioning) protocol.

```
PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource("D:\LocalSource");
SourceRepository localRepository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3(localSource);

SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
```

The SourceRepository then has a GetResourceAsync method that you can use to acquire implementations of INuGetResource that often are [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview#versioning) resources.

```
FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>(); 
```

## Examples
### Search packages

Search for "json" packages using the [NuGet V3 Search API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/search-query-service-resource):

```c#

> SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");

Reviewer: Maybe we can make the examples shorter by removing duplicate calls?

Reviewer 2: Personally I would keep the duplicate calls as it lets the reader to jump to the section they care about & ignore the parts that aren't relevant to them. Removing duplicate calls now means that the reader needs to read the guide in order.

Reviewer: IMO, README is not supposed to be a list of samples. 
I think it's relevant that they read the intro prior to the example they care about.

PackageSearchResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<PackageSearchResource>();
SearchFilter searchFilter = new SearchFilter(includePrerelease: true);

IEnumerable<IPackageSearchMetadata> results = await resource.SearchAsync(
    "json",
    searchFilter,
    skip: 0,
    take: 20,
    NullLogger.Instance,
    CancellationToken.None);

> foreach (IPackageSearchMetadata result in results)

Reviewer: We can also remove this since it's just console.writeline.

{
    Console.WriteLine($"Found package {result.Identity.Id} {result.Identity.Version}");
}
```

### Download a package

Download Newtonsoft.Json v12.0.1 using the [NuGet V3 Package Content API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/package-base-address-resource):

```c#

> SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");

Reviewer: Similar thing applies, assume the resorce is acquired and then just shorten the example.

FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>();

string packageId = "Newtonsoft.Json";
NuGetVersion packageVersion = new NuGetVersion("12.0.1");
using MemoryStream packageStream = new MemoryStream();

await resource.CopyNupkgToStreamAsync(
    packageId,
    packageVersion,
    packageStream,
    new SourceCacheContext(),
    NullLogger.Instance,
    CancellationToken.None);

Console.WriteLine($"Downloaded package {packageId} {packageVersion}");

using PackageArchiveReader packageReader = new PackageArchiveReader(packageStream);
NuspecReader nuspecReader = await packageReader.GetNuspecReaderAsync(cancellationToken);

Console.WriteLine($"Tags: {nuspecReader.GetTags()}");
Console.WriteLine($"Description: {nuspecReader.GetDescription()}");
```

### Push a package

Push a package using the [NuGet V3 Push and Delete API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/package-publish-resource):

```c#
SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
PackageUpdateResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<PackageUpdateResource>();

> string apiKey = "my-api-key";

Reviewer: we can inline api key.

await resource.Push(
    "MyPackage.nupkg",
    symbolSource: null,
    timeoutInSecond: 5 * 60,
    disableBuffering: false,
    getApiKey: packageSource => apiKey,
    getSymbolApiKey: packageSource => null,
    noServiceEndpoint: false,
    skipDuplicate: false,
    symbolPackageUpdateResource: null,
    NullLogger.Instance);
```

## Aditional documentation

> You can browse these and more samples on our [NuGet Client SDK documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/nuget/reference/nuget-client-sdk).

Reviewer: this and line 110 are pointing to a similar doc. 

Maybe we can merge them in 1 or just delete 108 altogether.

# NuGet.Protocol

NuGet.Protocol is a NuGet client SDK library that provides a set of APIs for interacting with NuGet feeds. It provides a way for developers to query NuGet feeds to discover packages and their dependencies, and also to download packages and their associated assets.

## Getting started

NuGet.Protocol can be installed from the NuGet Package Manager or using the dotnet CLI:

```
dotnet add package NuGet.Protocol
```

## Usage

> At the center of this library are the PackageSource and SourceRepository types, which represent a NuGet source that may be a file source or an http based source implementing the V2 or [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/api/overview#versioning) protocol.

Reviewer 2: Make sure to remove the locale from doc URLs so that users in non-US regions get localized content:

```suggestion
At the center of this library are the PackageSource and SourceRepository types, which represent a NuGet source that may be a file source or an http based source implementing the V2 or [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview#versioning) protocol.
```

```
PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource("D:\LocalSource");
SourceRepository localRepository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3(localSource);

SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
```

> The SourceRepository then has a GetResourceAsync method that you can use to acquire implementations of INuGetResource that often correlate to resources on V3.

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer simpler language to be friendly to folks that aren't familiar with English:

```suggestion
The SourceRepository then has a GetResourceAsync method that you can use to acquire implementations of INuGetResource that often are V3 resources.
```

var packageSource = new PackageSource(sourceUri)
{
    Credentials = new PackageSourceCredential(
        source: sourceUri,
        username: "myUsername",
        passwordText: "myVerySecretPassword",
        isPasswordClearText: true,
        validAuthenticationTypesText: null)
};

// If the `SourceRepository` is created with a `PackageSource`, the rest of APIs will consume the credentials attached to `PackageSource.Credentials`.
SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3(packageSource);
PackageMetadataResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<PackageMetadataResource>();

IEnumerable<IPackageSearchMetadata> packages = await resource.GetMetadataAsync(
    "MyPackage",
    includePrerelease: true,
    includeUnlisted: false,
    new SourceCacheContext(),
    NullLogger.Instance,
    CancellationToken.None);

foreach (IPackageSearchMetadata package in packages)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Version: {package.Identity.Version}");
    Console.WriteLine($"Listed: {package.IsListed}");
    Console.WriteLine($"Tags: {package.Tags}");
    Console.WriteLine($"Description: {package.Description}");
}
```

## Aditional documentation

> More information about the NuGet.Protocol library can be found on the [official Microsoft documentation page](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/reference/nuget-client-sdk#nugetprotocol).

Reviewer 2: Consider also linking to the NuGet API docs: https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview

# NuGet.Protocol

NuGet.Protocol is a NuGet client SDK library that provides a set of APIs for interacting with NuGet feeds. It provides a way for developers to query NuGet feeds to discover packages and their dependencies, and also to download packages and their associated assets.

> ## Getting started

Reviewer: I think how-to installs aren't appropriate for a package readme. More often than not, people see the readme later.

Reviewer: I'm guessing you forgot to remove tihs?

NuGet.Protocol can be installed from the NuGet Package Manager or using the dotnet CLI:

```
dotnet add package NuGet.Protocol
```

## Usage

### List package versions

> Find all versions of Newtonsoft.Json using the [NuGet V3 Package Content API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/api/package-base-address-resource#enumerate-package-versions):

Reviewer: If we're linking to docs, we remove the culture, so no `en-us` in the URLs

> ```c#

Reviewer: The documentation refers to the samples repo, that way the code can be easily changed. 

I'm wondering what others think about duplicating this code.

Maybe the docs can instead point to this? This is not really code that gets compiled though, so I'm a bit torn :D

Author: You mean just add a link to Samples/NuGetProtocolSamples? This is a good idea if we are going to be adding/updating the code, but not sure if this is the best option for a readme. Maybe we can do both things? 

I think I'll create more examples in the Samples repro for the other packages so I know what to put in the README

Maybe in the future we can autogenerate README's with the Samples examples.

Reviewer: fwiw, the rest of the packages aren't very helpful on their own. 

So NuGet.Protocol & NuGet.Packaging are the only ones extensively documented for a reason. They are the most useful packages.

Reviewer 3: I think much of this code is fine to duplicate. I think we're entering an inflection point where autogenerated code examples will be cheap to maintain long term. 

I do think we should provide as much of a package README for our heavily used packages as we can or even autogenerate with all the context that deep learning models have on NuGet APIs. 

That way we focus on pushing out new NuGet APIs, samples, docs, etc and can have updated READMEs every so often when they get stale?

Reviewer: I don't really agree. Autogenerated code for readme is not really an option. 
Code generation only works in the context of a code file. The other generators that are text only are consistently incorrect.

If we absolutely want to avoid duplication, an option would be have the sample in our repo in a separate project.

- The docs repo points to nuget.client repo instead of NuGet samples: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget/main/docs/reference/NuGet-Client-SDK.md. 
- The readme gets updated at build time using the sample from there?

 and the docs repo can point to the NuGet.Client repo instead of the NuGet.Samples repo. That way it changes with the APIs themselves.

Reviewer 3: I think there's multiple ways to do it.

AI generation I think could help fill a gap for the time being.

Manual/automated generation would be more akin to having a process to generate "snippets" or "code samples" based on other repos. I think Azure SDK showed us a tool they built to generate per service code snippets:

i.e. https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/eng/scripts/Update-Snippets.ps1

This might not be the exact tool, but there's a recording of this that Heng might be able to share.

Reviewer: I don't get which AI tool we can use that'd actually give a valid and correct result. There are none that can do that.

Reviewer 2: This is the tool Azure SDK uses to make sure code examples match a C# code region: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/tree/847f49edd9ced9e6d50e13828f443ad6f3daf35d/tools/snippet-generator/Azure.Sdk.Tools.SnippetGenerator

Example markdown: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/2345ae90049ccc59aa654ce772978ebf5ee48cf5/sdk/core/Azure.Core/samples/Response.md?plain=1#L15-L37

Example C# code region: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/2345ae90049ccc59aa654ce772978ebf5ee48cf5/sdk/core/Azure.Core/tests/samples/ResponseSamples.cs#L21-L43

The script Jon shared above runs in CI to verify code examples aren't stale.

Reviewer 4: Does someone manually make sure tests in `readme.md` and CI are consistent?

Reviewer 2: No, for each pull request [the CI runs the script](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/2345ae90049ccc59aa654ce772978ebf5ee48cf5/eng/scripts/CodeChecks.ps1#L97-L100) and then [checks that there are no changes](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/2345ae90049ccc59aa654ce772978ebf5ee48cf5/eng/scripts/CodeChecks.ps1#L171-L185).

ILogger logger = NullLogger.Instance;
CancellationToken cancellationToken = CancellationToken.None;

SourceCacheContext cache = new SourceCacheContext();
SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");

> FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>();

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should instead be describing the `resources` arch instead of just providing code samples.

Reviewer: When I say resources, I'm referring to the INuGetResource type that revolves around SourceRepository. I'll take a crack at this, since it's be easier to show what I'm suggesting.

# NuGet.Protocol

NuGet.Protocol is a NuGet client SDK library that provides a set of APIs for interacting with NuGet feeds. It provides a way for developers to query NuGet feeds to discover packages and their dependencies, and also to download packages and their associated assets.

> # Usage

Reviewer: I'd call this overview and say something like the following: 
I'd assume the links are fixed ofc, I'm just simplifying it :)

At the center of this library are the `PackageSource` and `SourceRepository` types, which represent a NuGet source that may be a file source or an http based source implementing the V2 or [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/api/overview#versioning) protocol.
Example: 

```cs
PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource("D:\LocalSource");
SourceRepository localRepository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3(localSource);

SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
```

The SourceRepository then has a `GetResourceAsync` method that you can use to acquire implementations of `INuGetResource` that often correlate to resources on [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/api/overview#versioning). 

```cs
FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>();
```

Example: 

- FindPackageByIdResource matches the package content (doc link) resource, and can be used to get the list of all packages or download a specific package.
- PackageMetadataResource matches the package metadata (doc link) resource, can be used to get the metadata such as dependency information, deprecation and vulnerability medatata.
- PackageSearchResource matches the package search (doc) resource, and can be used to search the packages on the source in question.

Reviewer: My thinking is with something like the above, we can just point to `Additional Documentation` and that's enough, you don't need too much code in the readme. 
IMO the readme should be about a general overview and a few pointers instead of detailed code samples. 
You have samples/docs repos for that.

Reviewer 2: > IMO the readme should be about a general overview and a few pointers instead of detailed code samples.

I highly recommend reading [Azure SDK's documentation guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/general_documentation.html). They've run extensive user studies to determine how to document their packages and READMEs. Their package READMEs contain code snippets that cover the core scenarios. For example: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/storage/Azure.Storage.Blobs#examples

In my mind NuGet's core scenarios are:

1. Find package
2. Download package
3. Upload package

## List package versions

Find all versions of Newtonsoft.Json using the [NuGet V3 Package Content API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/package-base-address-resource#enumerate-package-versions):

```c#
ILogger logger = NullLogger.Instance;
CancellationToken cancellationToken = CancellationToken.None;

SourceCacheContext cache = new SourceCacheContext();
SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>();

IEnumerable<NuGetVersion> versions = await resource.GetAllVersionsAsync(
    "Newtonsoft.Json",
    cache,
    logger,
    cancellationToken);

foreach (NuGetVersion version in versions)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Found version {version}");
}
```

### GetAllVersionsAsync(id,cacheContext,logger,cancellationToken) `method`

> ##### Summary

Reviewer: This wasn't really what I was referring to. 

Intellisense already provides this when calling a specific APIs.

# NuGet.Protocol

NuGet.Protocol is a NuGet client SDK library that provides a set of APIs for interacting with NuGet feeds. It provides a way for developers to query NuGet feeds to discover packages and their dependencies, and also to download packages and their associated assets.

## Usage

At the center of this library are the PackageSource and SourceRepository types, which represent a NuGet source that may be a file source or an http based source implementing the V2 or [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview#versioning) protocol.

```

> PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource("D:\LocalSource");

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource("D:\\LocalSource");
```
or
```suggestion
PackageSource localSource = new PackageSource(@"D:\LocalSource");
```

SourceRepository localRepository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3(localSource);

SourceRepository repository = Repository.Factory.GetCoreV3("https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json");
```

> The SourceRepository then has a GetResourceAsync method that you can use to acquire implementations of INuGetResource that often are [V3](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/overview#versioning) resources.

Reviewer 5: NuGet.Protocol's resource names do not match the server API resource names (the APIs are also not a 1:1 mapping). So, I think it would be useful to list the "base" resource types in the readme, to make it much easier for customers to figure out which resource types are likely to be useful.

Reviewer: mapping is a great idea.

Here's some pointers if you decide to add it.

FindPackagesById = content/flat container
PackageSearchResource = search
PackageMetadataResource = package metadata resources/registration
PackageUpdateResource = push and dlete

Reviewer 4: +1 for this.

```

### Download a package

Download Newtonsoft.Json v12.0.1 using the [NuGet V3 Package Content API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/package-base-address-resource):

```c#
FindPackageByIdResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<FindPackageByIdResource>();

string packageId = "Newtonsoft.Json";
NuGetVersion packageVersion = new NuGetVersion("12.0.1");
using MemoryStream packageStream = new MemoryStream();

await resource.CopyNupkgToStreamAsync(
    packageId,
    packageVersion,
    packageStream,
    new SourceCacheContext(),
    NullLogger.Instance,
    CancellationToken.None);
```

### Push a package

Push a package using the [NuGet V3 Push and Delete API](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/api/package-publish-resource):

```c#
PackageUpdateResource resource = await repository.GetResourceAsync<PackageUpdateResource>();

await resource.Push(
    "MyPackage.nupkg",
    symbolSource: null,
    timeoutInSecond: 5 * 60,
    disableBuffering: false,
    getApiKey: packageSource => "my-api-key",
    getSymbolApiKey: packageSource => null,
    noServiceEndpoint: false,
    skipDuplicate: false,
    symbolPackageUpdateResource: null,
    NullLogger.Instance);
```

> ## Aditional documentation

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## Additional documentation
```
